# Modeling the Performance of College Football Teams in the Postseason

## Introduction
With hundreds of teams representing colleges and universities across the country, college football is one of the largest sports industries in the United States. The league is often chaotic, which makes for exciting games, but it can also make the outcomes difficult to predict. As players only have a few years of eligibility, effective coaching and strategy is extremely important to the sustained success of a program. Jimbo Fisher, a college football coach, made headlines recently for getting fired, as his contract dictates that the university that previously employed him still owes about $75 million over the next several years. Coaches, oddsmakers, and bettors would all stand to gain immensely from a model capable of predicting the success of a team based on their strengths and weaknesses on the field. An attempt will be made to create this model, predicting the winners of post-season games based on their regular season data.

## Methods
There are a few things to note about the datasets prior to creating the model. Due to the way the data for the regular season was collected (information from individual games) and how the data will be used (averaged to provide per-game values) some amount of data preparation needs to be performed. This dataset also has a lot of features, which may cause overfitting if all of them are used, so some form of feature selection should be performed.

Two models were trained, and they were both logistic regression models. This was chosen for the first model as the initial goal was to just predict the winner of a game outright, a categorical target. This model was trained based on the differences of each of the features of the two teams. For the second model, a linear regression could have been performed to predict the difference in score, however, due to the relative inaccuracy of the first model, the goal shifted slightly to trying to predict games with a high score difference, thus finding the games the first model should be the most confident in. In addition, one portion of sports betting is the spread, or the difference in final score. If a model can be trained to predict whether a game will surpass a given spread, oddsmakers and sports bettors could make more informed decisions. As the models were being limited to provide a categorical true or false decision, the main metrics being used to evaluate the models were accuracy and the confusion matrix. Accuracy was just used for a quick evaluation of the models; the confusion matrix was used to better determine how the model performs.
